# synthetic-salt-geomods
Meant for training deep generative models for a specific geology, this is a data set of synthetically produced subsurface property models (density, Vp, Vs), exhibiting various salt formations embedded in stacks of sinusoidal layers below a water column.

Description:

The simulator we have used creates depth-section images of synthetic subsurface configurations by sequentially depositing single-pixel layers of material that follow sinusoidal paths with semi-random amplitudes and phases. That is, these layers are grouped into ``sequences'' and ``para-sequences'' where the para-sequences will draw distinct random values for their amplitude and phase, while the sequences will maintain the same sinusoidal characteristics and therefore layer morphology. The sequences are nested inside the para-sequences to create some depth continuity of morphology. The sequences (the inner-loop of layer grouping) also draw from a small set of facies such that layer property values within them may repeat, with facies indices also drawn at random. The para-sequences operate on top of this loop by gradually shifting the set of facies available to a sequence within a para-sequence. The shift of facies between para-sequences is meant to simulate long-term changes in environments of deposition, while also allowing for the imposition of a compaction trend with depth. 

Each facies has associated with it a unique multi-variate normal probability distribution function (pdf) which dictates the values that facies may take for compressional velocity, V_p, shear velocity, V_s, and density, ρ. The covariance of this joint distribution is not necessarily diagonal; we only ensure it is positive definite. In general it enforces a positive correlation between V_p, V_s, and ρ, but as with all things in this model, the distribution parameters are drawn randomly, and are allowed, albeit with a small probability, to produce negative correlations. First, facies models are made with a trend toward higher facies indices with depth, though reversals to this trend are allowed by the random draw of facies within sequences. Then, when property models are made, each facies index will draw from its specific joint-distribution to fill in that layer with uniform values for each of the V_p, V_s, or ρ. The facies pdfs have mean values for V_p, V_s, and ρ which increase with facies index using a logarithmic function such that the increase is much faster at smaller indices (shallower depths) than at larger ones (deeper depths), to mimic compaction and cementation.

Finally, two other features are added to this model in an independent way. First, a water layer is added, which has a linear trend with a random slope and a random starting depth (left side of model). Second, a collection of salt bodies are added. These are added by generating a random number of seed points at random locations below a minimum depth below the seafloor. A surface is then generated by solving Poisson's equation using these seed points as delta functions of unit density. A contour on this surface is then chosen as a boundary between the salt bodies (inside) and the background sediments (outside). The salt body is then filled with anomalous V_p, V_s, and ρ properties which are, again, drawn from a normal distribution creating some randomness for salt properties between different training images.
